DOCS-2291: Add Optimal Block Size Recommendation (#960)
truenas/documentation: content/CORE/Storage/Pools/Zvols.md

{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "Optimal Zvol Block Sizes" "v" >}}

> When creating zvols TrueNAS will automatically recommend a sane volume *block size* for optimizing space efficiency.  Below are the minimum volume *block size* values the TrueNAS zvol creation process will recommend. To manually change this value select from the *Block size* dropdown menu. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TrueNAS automatically recommends a space-efficient *block size* for new zvols. This table shows the minimum volume *block size* values that are recommended. To manually change this value, use the *Block size* dropdown menu.
```

> | Number of Drives | Configuration | Optimal Block Size | 
> |---------------|-------|-------|
> |N/A|Mirror|16k
> |3|Raidz-1|16k|
> |4|Raidz-2|16k|
> |5|Raidz-3|16K|
> |4/5|Raidz-1|32k|
> |5/6|Raidz-2|32k|
> |6/7|Raidz-3|32k|
> |6/7/8/9|Raidz-1|64k|
> |7/8/9/10|Raidz-2|64k|
> |8/9/10/11|Raidz-3|64k|
> |10+|Raidz-1|128k|
> |11+|Raidz-2|128k|
> |12+|Raidz-3|128k|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Configuration | Number of Drives | Optimal Block Size | 
|---------------|-------|-------|
| Mirror | N/A | 16k |
| Raidz-1 | 3 | 16k |
| Raidz-2 | 4 | 16k |
| Raidz-3 | 5 | 16k |
| Raidz-1 | 4/5 | 32k |
| Raidz-2 | 5/6 | 32k |
| Raidz-3 | 6/7 | 32k |
| Raidz-1 | 6/7/8/9 | 64k |
| Raidz-2 | 7/8/9/10 | 64k |
| Raidz-3 | 8/9/10/11 | 64k |
| Raidz-1 | 10+ | 128k |
| Raidz-2 | 11+ | 128k |
| Raidz-3 | 12+ | 128k |
```

Reviewer 2: And sort by the Configuration first.

Reviewer: Sorry about that, is that cleaner?

Reviewer 2: Sure.

> Additional tuning may be required for optimal performance depending on the workload.  See the [workload tuning chapter](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Performance%20and%20Tuning/Workload%20Tuning.html) of the OpenZFS handbook for more information

Reviewer: Discussed with Joe about adding a note about Enterprise support here.
```suggestion
Additional tuning can be required for optimal performance, depending on the workload. iXsystems Engineers are available to assist [Enterprise](https://www.truenas.com/truenas-enterprise/) customers with tuning their TrueNAS hardware. The [workload tuning chapter](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Performance%20and%20Tuning/Workload%20Tuning.html) of the OpenZFS handbook is also a good resource.
```
